Noetic EOL Post (#54)
ros-infrastructure/www.ros.org: content/blog/noetic-eol/index.md

---
title: "Upcoming ROS 1 End of Life"
author:  Kat Scott 
subtitle: Migration Paths for ROS 1 Users
created_at: 2024-12-16 16:21:05 -0700
kind: article
header_class:  bg-photo 
header_image:  /imgs/eol-bg.png 
---

## ROS 1 Noetic Ninjemys goes End-of-Life 2024-05-31

> When we [announced](https://www.openrobotics.org/blog/2020/5/23/noetic-ninjemys-the-last-official-ros-1-release) ROS 1 Noetic Ninjemys on May 23rd, 2020 we made it very clear that it would be the last official ROS 1 distribution. 

Reviewer: When I read this I get "per my previous message" vibes. I would recommend reducing it to:

```suggestion
ROS Noetic Ninjemys, the [last ROS 1 release](https://www.openrobotics.org/blog/2020/5/23/noetic-ninjemys-the-last-official-ros-1-release), will reach End of Life in May 2025.
```

In the proceeding five years we focused our efforts on making ROS 2 a world class framework for professional robot development, and our user community seems to agree.
According to September 2024 download data from our servers ROS 2 downloads now make up almost 80% of all ROS downloads.

> We've now seen ROS 2 used successfully in production by a large number of companies, across dozens of industries, and we think it is time for the last remaining ROS users to make the switch. 

Reviewer: I'd recommend putting this info into a section about why people should migrate to ROS 2

If you have been directed to this page it was probably because you saw one of the notifications we slipped into the source code for ROS Noetic or RViz. 
We've heard from a number of users that they were unaware that ROS 1 Noetic, and consequently all of 1, will go end-of-life on **May 31st, 2025**.

> We're sorry that we interrupted your work, but it is crucial that you know what happens once ROS 1 goes end-of-life.

Reviewer: I think we could omit this paragraph (but keep the may 31st 2025 date somewhere)

<img src="/imgs/distro-download-data.png" alt="ROS Downloads by Distro, September 2024" style="width:600px;align:center"/>

### What Does End-of-Life Mean?

> Users often ask us, “what does end of life mean?” 
> To put it briefly, end of life means that the ROS team will no longer support that particular ROS release. 
> In practical terms, this means that after May 31st of 2025 we will no longer be providing the following for any ROS 1 release, including Noetic:

Reviewer: Nit, could be more concise

```suggestion
End of life for ROS Noetic means that the ROS team will no longer support ROS 1. 
After May 31st of 2025, the ROS team will no longer provide to ROS 1:

```

* New features or capabilities
* Security updates
* Bug fixes, patches or support
* Updated binaries

After May 31st, 2025 ROS 1 Noetic may find themselves exposed to un-patched security vulnerabilities and bugs, with few avenues of support short of fixing these issues themselves and recompiling Noetic from source. 

> It is also worth *noting the things that won’t change after ROS 1* goes end of life.
> 
> * ROS 1 binaries will not suddenly disappear from our servers. They will continue to be hosted in the archive in perpetuity. 
> * ROS 1 projects will not suddenly stop working on May 31st. 
> * Users do not need to migrate immediately, but they should have migration plan and upgrade as soon as is reasonable

Reviewer: Nit, recommend a list here. A tech writing class I took says people LOVE lists 🤷 

```suggestion
ROS 1 going end of life does **not** mean:

* *ROS 1 binaries will suddenly disappear.*
  * ROS 1 binaries will continue to be hosted on `packages.ros.org`
* *ROS 1 projects will suddenly stop working on May 31st.*
  * ROS 1 will continue to work, as it does today.
* *Users must stop using ROS 1 immediately*,
  * ROS 1 will continue to work, but you should have migration plan as soon as possible
```

<br>

### ROS 2 Migration Options

**If you are still using ROS 1 it is time to consider switching to ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill ([migration guide](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1.html)) or ROS 2 Jazzy Jalisco ([migration guide](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1.html)).**

> Which distro you choose as your migration target  is going to depend on the complexity of your ROS 1 system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which distro you choose as your migration target is going to depend on the complexity of your ROS 1 system.
```

Extra space

This [migration heuristic tool](https://github.com/osrf/ros2-porting-heuristics) can provide you with estimate the complexity of  migrating your project to ROS 2.

> If have a you smaller ROS 1 project, or a reasonably de-coupled workspace, it is most likely that you can migrate ROS 2 Jazzy Jalisco directly.

Reviewer: I would recommend putting this info into the ROS 1 -> 2 migration guide, and linking that from here. https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1.html

> The ROS community has produced a number of migration tools which you may find helpful, including this migration tool from [AWS Labs](https://github.com/awslabs/ros2-migration-tools), and this migration tool from ROS maintainer [David Lu!](https://github.com/DLu/roscompile/tree/main/magical_ros2_conversion_tool)

Reviewer: This is already in the ROS 1 -> ROS 2 migration guide

If your ROS 1 system is tightly coupled, has a number of un-ported dependencies, or is reasonably complex, you may want to take advantage of the [ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge](https://github.com/ros2/ros1_bridge).
The ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge performs automated translation between major ROS versions and should allow you to migrate your project one package at a time. 

> Due to the operating system constraints for the curent active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the only way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer: I would recommend we add a page on bridging to the ROS 1 -> ROS 2 migration guide instead of writing it here

Author: That could be a tough one. 

The suggestion would be to have a page, that only exists in the Humble docs branch, on how to compile Humble on 20.04 with the bridge. I could do that pretty quickly if I had some crib notes or a history dump. Would someone have something like that? Are there any gotchas?

Reviewer: This is a guide I'm wanting to write, but to unblock this PR I'm good with leaving this section in for now. I will make a PR to replace it with a link when I land the bridging doc.

> The suggestion would be to have a page, that only exists in the Humble docs branch, on how to compile Humble on 20.04 with the bridge. I could do that pretty quickly if I had some crib notes or a history dump. Would someone have something like that? Are there any gotchas?

I'm thinking making it not ROS distro specific. In my mind it looks like:

1.  Pick the ROS 2 distro you want to use
2. Here's how to compile Noetic and the bridge on newer ubuntu distros
3. If something doesn't work, here's how to grab a patch from ROS O

Author: This would be for Humble and Jazzy in particular?

I don't have an objection but we probably want a black box warning stating that this is only recommended in the case of migration. Feel free to tag me for a review.

Reviewer 3: Note that ROS-O can be easily installed from binaries next to all active ROS2 releases.
I suggest to replace the sentence with something along the following line:

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic = Ubuntu  20.04, ROS2 >= Ubuntu 22.04) we suggest [installing ROS-One](https://ros.packages.techfak.net/) next to ROS2 on a decent Ubuntu distro (instead of building ROS2 from source on Ubuntu 20.04).

In ROS 2 users have a choice about which protocol they would like to use to move data across their network.
This new abstraction layer is called a ROS Middle Layer (RMW), and users can pick the [vendor](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Different-Middleware-Vendors.html) that best supports their application.
ROS 2 users now have multiple official and unofficial ROS Middleware (RMWs) to choose from:

* DDS-based RMWs like [Fast-DDS](https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/ros2/ros2_configure.html) and [Cyclone DDS](https://cyclonedds.io/docs/cyclonedds/latest/about_dds/eclipse_cyclone_dds.html). We recommend new DDS users read our [tuning guide](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/How-To-Guides/DDS-tuning.html) and familiarize themselves with utilities like the [Fast-DDS Discovery Server](https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/ros2/discovery_server/ros2_discovery_server.html) when using WiFi networks.
* A preview of [RMW-Zenoh](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_zenoh) is available in ROS 2 Jazzy, and binaries for the new RMW were [are available via apt.](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-zenoh-binaries-for-rolling-jazzy-and-humble/41395) 

> * Other RMWs are supported by the community including [IceOryx2](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-iceoryx2-v0-1-0-release/40996), [Gurum-DDS](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_gurumdds) and even, well, [e-mail](https://discourse.ros.org/t/ros-2-over-email-rmw-email-an-rmw-implementation/22360).

Reviewer: I think we could remove this, or moving it to the ROS 1 -> ROS 2 migration guide. I think it goes beyond the goal of teaching ROS 1 users what their migration options are.

Author: I don't disagree with adding this to the migration guide, but I am going to push back a bit. 

I've heard of people abandoning or avoiding migration because they:

- are intimidated by DDS, 
- think they have to migrate their launch files to Python, 
- couldn't find a nodelet-like construct in ROS 2.

I am sure a few of these are one-offs, but people get hung up on the details. I can see your concern that this is probably information overload on the topic of migration options. My intention here is to give a few paragraph summary of the changes in ROS 2 so people can read up about what concerns them before they begin. 

What if we had a line or two to the top that roughly says, "We've compiled a list of common concerns ... but you don't need all of this to get started" and frame this section as "resources for common questions?"

Reviewer: > What if we had a line or two to the top that roughly says, "We've compiled a list of common concerns ... but you don't need all of this to get started" and frame this section as "resources for common questions?"

Sounds good to me!

Which distro you choose as your migration target is going to depend on the complexity of your ROS 1 system.
This [migration heuristic tool](https://github.com/osrf/ros2-porting-heuristics) can provide you with estimate the complexity of  migrating your project to ROS 2.
If have a you smaller ROS 1 project, or a reasonably de-coupled workspace, it is most likely that you can migrate ROS 2 Jazzy Jalisco directly.
The ROS community has produced a number of migration tools which you may find helpful, including this migration tool from [AWS Labs](https://github.com/awslabs/ros2-migration-tools), and this migration tool from ROS maintainer [David Lu!](https://github.com/DLu/roscompile/tree/main/magical_ros2_conversion_tool)

If your ROS 1 system is tightly coupled, has a number of un-ported dependencies, or is reasonably complex, you may want to take advantage of the [ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge](https://github.com/ros2/ros1_bridge).
The ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge performs automated translation between major ROS versions and should allow you to migrate your project one package at a time. 

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the only way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer 4: So I agree that we should say that the "only way" to use the bridge is on Humble; as Robert points out there may be other avenues.  Here, I think it is enough to modify this to say:

```suggestion
Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the easiest way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).
```

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the only way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer 3: I don't think that the **easiest** way is to build Humble from source. Using ROS-O binary packages is probably much easier (and definitely faster) than compiling everything from scratch.

> I agree that we should say that the "only way" to use the bridge is on Humble.

Does that mean the bridge is no longer supported/provided on later ROS2 distros?
If so, that should be _explicitly_ stated indeed.

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the only way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer 4: Arg, that was a typo.  I meant to say:

```
    I agree that we shouldn't say that the "only way" to use the bridge is on Humble.
```

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the only way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer 3: Missing a _not_ was crucial ;-)

#### Other Migration Options

We highly recommend you migrate your ROS 1 project to ROS 2 as soon as possible.
Most users have found the migration process less difficult than the initially expected. 
If you simply can't migrate your ROS 1 project right now you do have a few options,
**however, none of these solutions are officially supported, and we can't speak to their long-term robustness.** 

* Canonical, offers [extended security maintenance](https://ubuntu.com/robotics/docs/tutorial-ros-esm) for a number of ROS 1 host operating systems for a fee.
* [ROS-O](https://github.com/ros-o/ros-o) is a volunteer run effort to extend the support lifetime of ROS 1 projects.
* If you simply need an extra set of hands to help with your migration you are welcome to use our [jobs board](https://discourse.ros.org/c/jobs/15) on ROS Discourse to find some help. 

<br>

### What's New in ROS 2?

> Before you begin your ROS migration journey, we recommend you read up on some the new and improved features in ROS 2. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you begin your ROS migration journey, we recommend you read up on some of the new and improved features in ROS 2. 
```

We've put together a collection of resources that outline some of the major changes in ROS 2. 
**Almost all of these resources are readily available as part of our [migration guide in the ROS 2 documentation](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1.html).**
While understanding what has and hasn't changed between ROS 1 and ROS 2 can make the migration process go a lot smoother, it really isn't necessary to get started!
There's a lot to love in ROS 2, and we think you'll find some of the new ROS 2 features make for a much better user experience.

**Changes to the ROS API** 

Most of the ROS 2 API should look familiar to ROS 1 users with a few notable exceptions. 
Where things have changed, they have changed to address shortcomings in ROS 1. 
The exciting thing about ROS 2 is that it has given us the opportunity to address a number of user complaints about ROS 1! 
The list below outlines some of the larger changes to the ROS API found in version 2.

> * Nodelets in ROS 1 have been replaced with ROS 2's [composable nodes concept.](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/Composition.html) ROS users can now compose their processing routines into the same process space using both compile time and run time composition. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Nodelets in ROS 1 have been replaced with ROS 2's [composable nodes concept](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/Composition.html). ROS users can now compose their processing routines into the same process space using both compile time and run time composition. 
```

* ROS 2 supports three different types of launch files: [YAML, Python, and XML](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/Launch/Creating-Launch-Files.html). There is a complete guide to [migrating your ROS 1 launch files](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1/Migrating-Launch-Files.html) available on docs.ros.org.
* The ROS 2 [lifecycle node API](https://foxglove.dev/blog/how-to-use-ros2-lifecycle-nodes) has standardized the lifecycle of ROS nodes. The process of starting and stopping ROS nodes is now much more robust. We recommend taking advantage of this feature when migrating your ROS 1 project. 
* ROSBag performance has improved significantly in ROS 2, and the new ROS 2 type adaptation makes it even easier to share data using ROS Bags. As of ROS 2 Humble [MCap](https://mcap.dev/guides) is now the standard ROSBag data format.
* If you are looking for examples of common ROS 2 design patterns the [ROS 2 Cookbook](https://github.com/mikeferguson/ros2_cookbook) offers code samples for common ROS 2 tasks.

<br>

**ROS Development**

> The ROS build and command line tools have also gotten a face lift in ROS 2. While there have been a few changes, the way you build and run your ROS application should feel familiar. All of our new tools are self-documenting, and you can learn a lot by simply passing them the `--help` command. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ROS build and command line tools have also gotten a face lift in ROS 2.
While there have been a few changes, the way you build and run your ROS application should feel familiar. All of our new tools are self-documenting, and you can learn a lot by simply passing them the `--help` option.
```

> The ROS build and command line tools have also gotten a face lift in ROS 2. While there have been a few changes the way you build and run your ROS application should feel familiar. All of our new tools are self documenting, and you should can learn a lot by simply passing them the `--help` command. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ROS build and command line tools have also gotten a face lift in ROS 2. While there have been a few changes, the way you build and run your ROS application should feel familiar. All of our new tools are self-documenting, and you can learn a lot by simply passing them the `--help` command. 
```

> * The [ROS command line interface (CLI)](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services.html) syntax has changed slightly in ROS 2. All your favorite commands are still there, but they syntax has been modernized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The [ROS command line interface (CLI)](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services.html) syntax has changed slightly in ROS 2. All your favorite commands are still there, but the syntax has been modernized.
```

> * ROS 2 has replaced Catkin for [Colcon](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/user/quick-start.html). The names have changed, but most of your favorite functionality is still there.
> * [Ament](https://github.com/ament) is a collection of [ROS build tool helper functions](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Advanced/About-Build-System.html). Ament wraps common build tasks and exposes them to Colcon and ROS. 

Reviewer 4: These are complicated to explain, because ROS 1 used `catkin` both for the cmake helpers, and for the build tool.  In ROS 2, these are split up where the cmake helpers are `ament`, and the `build tool` is `colcon`.  So maybe something like:

```suggestion
* ROS 2 uses [Colcon](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/user/quick-start.html), rather than `catkin-build`, as the build tool. The names have changed, but most of your favorite functionality is still there.
* [Ament](https://github.com/ament) is a collection of [ROS build tool helper functions](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Advanced/About-Build-System.html). Ament wraps common build tasks and exposes them to Colcon and ROS. 
```

Reviewer 3: In ROS1 we had a multitude of build tools: `catkin_make`, `catkin_make_isolated`, and `catkin build`.
The one mentioned in your suggestion, `catkin-build` doesn't exist! I feel that the original formulation was more generic, but I understand that you want to express that catkin cmake scripts are still supported by colcon. However, that's not really relevant for ROS2 packages.

> * [Ament](https://github.com/ament) is a collection of [ROS build tool helper functions](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Advanced/About-Build-System.html). Ament wraps common build tasks and exposes them to Colon and ROS. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Ament](https://github.com/ament) is a collection of [ROS build tool helper functions](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Advanced/About-Build-System.html). Ament wraps common build tasks and exposes them to Colcon and ROS. 
```

Author: That's an unfortunate spell check replacement. 😳

<br>

**The ROS Middleware Layer (RMW)**

ROS 1's bespoke publish / subscribe layer was very simple to use, but also difficult to configure for more complex use cases. 
In ROS 2 users have a choice about which protocol they would like to use to move data across their network.

> This new abstraction layer is called a ROS Middle Layer (RMW), and users can pick the [vendor](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Different-Middleware-Vendors.html) that best supports their application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This new abstraction layer is called a ROS Middleware Layer (RMW), and users can pick the [vendor](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Different-Middleware-Vendors.html) that best supports their application.
```

> **If you don't know which RMW is right for you we suggest you use the default RMW that ships with your distro**, however ROS 2 users now have multiple official and unofficial ROS RMWs to choose from, including:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**If you don't know which RMW is right for you we suggest you use the default RMW that ships with your distro**, however ROS 2 users now have multiple official and unofficial ROS RMWs to choose from, including:
```
```suggestion
**If you don't know which RMW is right for you, we suggest you use the default RMW that ships with your distro**, however ROS 2 users now have multiple official and unofficial ROS RMWs to choose from, including:
```

* DDS-based RMWs like [Fast-DDS](https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/ros2/ros2_configure.html) and [Cyclone DDS](https://cyclonedds.io/docs/cyclonedds/latest/about_dds/eclipse_cyclone_dds.html). 
  * We recommend new DDS users read our [tuning guide](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/How-To-Guides/DDS-tuning.html) and familiarize themselves with utilities like the [Fast-DDS Discovery Server](https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/ros2/discovery_server/ros2_discovery_server.html) when using WiFi networks.

> * A preview of [RMW-Zenoh](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_zenoh) is available in ROS 2 Jazzy, and binaries for the new RMW [are now available via apt.](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-zenoh-binaries-for-rolling-jazzy-and-humble/41395) 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* A preview of [RMW-Zenoh](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_zenoh) is available in ROS 2 Jazzy, and binaries for the new RMW [are now available via apt](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-zenoh-binaries-for-rolling-jazzy-and-humble/41395). 
```

> * A preview of [RMW-Zenoh](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_zenoh) is available in ROS 2 Jazzy, and binaries for the new RMW were [are now available via apt.](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-zenoh-binaries-for-rolling-jazzy-and-humble/41395) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A preview of [RMW-Zenoh](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_zenoh) is available in ROS 2 Jazzy, and binaries for the new RMW [are now available via apt.](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-zenoh-binaries-for-rolling-jazzy-and-humble/41395) 
```

* Other community supported and proprietary RMWs are also available including [RTI Connext](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_connextdds), [IceOryx2](https://discourse.ros.org/t/rmw-iceoryx2-v0-1-0-release/40996), [Gurum-DDS](https://github.com/ros2/rmw_gurumdds) and even, [e-mail](https://discourse.ros.org/t/ros-2-over-email-rmw-email-an-rmw-implementation/22360).

<br>

**Related Projects**

Most of the major ROS packages and projects have already upgraded to ROS 2. 
Our sister project, Gazebo, is also in the process of migrating to its second major release, and many ROS users are also making the switch to a modern version of Gazebo.

> You don't necessarily need to upgrade to upgrade both ROS and Gazebo at the same time, but it is important to note that [Gazebo Classic is also going end of life in 2025](https://community.gazebosim.org/t/gazebo-classic-end-of-life/2563).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You don't necessarily need to upgrade both ROS and Gazebo at the same time, but it is important to note that [Gazebo Classic is also going end of life in 2025](https://community.gazebosim.org/t/gazebo-classic-end-of-life/2563) too.
```

Other related ROS projects like MoveIt, Nav2, and ros2_control also have new and improved releases that are production-ready for your robotics application!

* We recommend Gazebo users [migrate their Gazebo simulation to a modern version of Gazebo](https://gazebosim.org/docs/harmonic/gazebo_classic_migration/).
  * Starting with ROS 2 Iron Irwini, binaries for modern Gazebo are available. ROS 2 / modern Gazebo integration is accomplished using the [`ros_gz` repository](https://github.com/gazebosim/ros_gz)

> * If your robot supports custom hardware, if may be worth investigating [micro-ROS](https://micro.ros.org/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If your robot supports custom hardware, it may be worth investigating [micro-ROS](https://micro.ros.org/).
```

* MoveIt2, the latest version of MoveIt, has a complete [migration guide available in their official documentation.](https://moveit.picknik.ai/main/api/html/index.html)

> * Nav2, the ROS 2 navigation framework, has [complete documentation available for new users.](https://docs.nav2.org/index.html)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Nav2, the ROS 2 navigation framework, has [complete documentation available for new users](https://docs.nav2.org/index.html).
```

> * [ROS 2 Control](https://control.ros.org/master/doc/getting_started/getting_started.html) is the new ROS 2 control framework with extensive documentation..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [ROS 2 Control](https://control.ros.org/master/doc/getting_started/getting_started.html) is the new ROS 2 control framework with extensive documentation.
```

<br>

### Where To Find Help

You don't just have to take our word for it, a number of professional ROS users have already made the jump to ROS 2 and written about their ROS migration experience. 
We've collected a few relevant blog posts below: 

* [Husarion Blog on ROS 2 Migration](https://medium.com/husarion-blog/porting-a-project-from-ros1-to-ros2-our-experience-ef27b1748915)
* [ROS 2 Migration Guide using the TurtleBot 2](https://discourse.ros.org/t/migrating-turtlebot-2-to-ros-2/36225)
* [Robotics Back End Migration Guide](https://roboticsbackend.com/migrate-ros-project-from-ros1-to-ros2/)
* [ROS Industrial Migration Guide](https://industrial-training-master.readthedocs.io/en/melodic/_source/session7/ROS1-to-ROS2-porting.html)

At ROSCon 2024, our annual ROS developers conference, an overwhelming majority of the talks were about ROS 2. 

> Below you find a collection ROSCon talks that directly cover the process of migrating from ROS 1 to ROS 2. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below you find a collection of ROSCon talks that directly cover the process of migrating from ROS 1 to ROS 2. 
```

Which distro you choose as your migration target is going to depend on the complexity of your ROS 1 system.
This [migration heuristic tool](https://github.com/osrf/ros2-porting-heuristics) can help you estimating the complexity of migrating your project to ROS 2.
If you have a smaller ROS 1 project, or a reasonably de-coupled workspace, it is most likely that you can migrate to ROS 2 Jazzy Jalisco directly.
The ROS community has produced a number of migration tools which you may find helpful, including this migration tool from [AWS Labs](https://github.com/awslabs/ros2-migration-tools), and this migration tool from ROS maintainer [David Lu!](https://github.com/DLu/roscompile/tree/main/magical_ros2_conversion_tool)

If your ROS 1 system is tightly coupled, has a number of un-ported dependencies, or is reasonably complex, you may want to take advantage of the [ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge](https://github.com/ros2/ros1_bridge).
The ROS 1 to ROS 2 Bridge performs automated translation between major ROS versions and should allow you to migrate your project one package at a time. 

> Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic / Ubuntu  20.04, Humble / 22.04)  the easiest way to use the ROS Bridge is to use ROS 2 Humble Hawksbill compiled from source on Ubuntu 20.04, [which has limited Tier 3 support](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-2000.html#humble-hawksbill-may-2022-may-2027).

Reviewer 3: Looks like my suggestion https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/www.ros.org/pull/54#discussion_r1919895964 was not yet considered.
```suggestion
Due to the operating system constraints for the current active ROS releases (Noetic = Ubuntu  20.04, ROS2 >= Ubuntu 22.04) we suggest [installing ROS-O](https://ros.packages.techfak.net/) next to ROS2 on a decent Ubuntu distro (instead of building ROS2 from source on Ubuntu 20.04).
```
As argued in https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/www.ros.org/pull/54#discussion_r1927672056, I don't think that the easiest way is to build Humble from source. Using ROS-O binary packages is easier (and definitely faster) than compiling everything from scratch.

Author: We talked this over internally and we think the best approach here is to present both options to the user. The real problem for users is that we stopped supporting the bridge after Foxy, so the user is already venturing into questionable territory.

Reviewer 3: For me, looks like you stopped support for the bridge too early.

* ROSBag performance has improved significantly in ROS 2, and the new ROS 2 type adaptation makes it even easier to share data using ROS Bags. As of ROS 2 Humble [MCap](https://mcap.dev/guides) is now the standard ROSBag data format.
* If you are looking for examples of common ROS 2 design patterns the [ROS 2 Cookbook](https://github.com/mikeferguson/ros2_cookbook) offers code samples for common ROS 2 tasks.

<br>

**ROS Development**

The ROS build and command line tools have also gotten a face lift in ROS 2.
While there have been a few changes, the way you build and run your ROS application should feel familiar. All of our new tools are self-documenting, and you can learn a lot by simply passing them the `--help` option.

* The [ROS command line interface (CLI)](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Services/Understanding-ROS2-Services.html) syntax has changed slightly in ROS 2. All your favorite commands are still there, but the syntax has been modernized.

> * ROS 2 uses [Colcon](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/user/quick-start.html), rather than `catkin-build`, as the build tool. The names have changed, but most of your favorite functionality is still there.

Reviewer 3: As argued in https://github.com/ros-infrastructure/www.ros.org/pull/54#discussion_r1927664150, `catkin-build` is not a valid build tool at all. We have: `catkin_make`, `catkin_make_isolated`, and `catkin build` (without a hyphen).
